You are probably
the most obedient group
of people this size
that has ever entered Jersey City.
So we say,
“Thank you very much
for being in your seats.”
It’s now my pleasure
to invite you to stand
and to sing song number 150,
“Reaching Out,”
Matthew 9:37, 38.
What a marvelous gift from God it is.
We all have one.
It’s a bit larger in men than it is in women.
What is it?
It’s in your mouth.
It’s your tongue.
A small muscle,
a little over three inches long.
We do so many things with it
—you can whisper with it;
you can yell with it;
you can swallow your food with its help;
and it’s so versatile;
you can stick it out.
Over in Tibet,
they stick out the tongue,
some of them,
and it’s a sign of friendship and greeting.
Don’t you try that here!
It stays out of the way of your teeth
when you chew,
well, most of the time.
It is an arduous job
trying to control the tongue,
but James had something
to say about it.
Let’s see what he had to say.
Let’s turn to James
in our Bibles or iPads.
That’s the third chapter of his book,
and we’re going to read
5 through 10:
“So, too, the tongue
is a small part of the body,
“and yet it makes great brags.
“See how small a fire it takes
“to set a great forest ablaze!
“The tongue is also a fire.
“The tongue represents
a world of unrighteousness
“among our body members,
“for it defiles all the body
“and sets the whole course of life on fire,
“and it is set on fire by Gehenna.
“For every kind of wild animal and bird
“and reptile and sea creature
“is to be tamed
and has been tamed by humans.
“But no human can tame the tongue.
“It is unruly and injurious,
“full of deadly poison.
“With it we praise Jehovah, the Father,
“and yet with it we curse men
“who have come into existence
“‘in the likeness of God.’
“Out of the same mouth
come blessing and cursing.”
In our imperfect state,
we can’t completely control it.
Oh, we try,
and we must try,
but we just can’t get the job
completely done.
But we’re not going to give up.
We’re going to keep trying.
We’re going to watch, though,
what we have to say
—what comes out of the mouth,
what rolls as a result of the tongue.
We’re going to be very careful.
And we know that we must rein in
a runaway tongue
and curb its wagging.
Although blessing
and cursing can come out
of the mouth by use of the tongue
you will only hear blessings
out of the mouths
of the speakers
and participants today.
These Christians
have bridled their tongues.
Thank God for that.
Today we are going to
consider things that are—
Now, you want to jot these down
because we’re going to mention them
several times through the day.
Here they are:
‘true,
‘things of serious concern,
‘righteous, chaste,
‘lovable, well-spoken-of,
virtuous, praiseworthy,’
“good and acceptable.”
The tongue will work good
for us today, not bad.
So we say, “sit still,”
and may your ears
keep up with the tongues
of all of our participants.
And as you know,
in our September JW Broadcasting program,
Brother Splane told us
that the move of Bethel family members
to the world headquarters facility
in Warwick, New York,
is in progress.
It is already a bustling complex
with so many relocated
and caring for their assignments.
This represents a historic change
since the world headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses
had been located in Brooklyn, New York,
for over 100 years.
We’re all happy,
and it’s good for us who live there.
It’s such a beautiful place indeed
and so restful.
All of us feel like we have been able
to add years to our lives.
We can hear birds sing,
crickets at night, frogs
—every now and then,
there’s an eagle that flies over—
bears, and snakes.
But we’ve been warned to watch out.
We know what to do.
And we’re just enjoying ourselves
as much as we possibly can.
Well, we now invite you
to enjoy a video presentation
about the history
of headquarters in Brooklyn
and the move to Warwick.
So we say,
“Enjoy what you see.”
And here is
—look at your notes—
true.
Why are we here at Bethel today
in New York City?
Why did Pastor Russell leave Pittsburgh?
To expand the ministry worldwide.
But look at it today.
The satisfaction to see
and the blessing of seeing the work
expand “to the ends of the earth”
and God’s will being done.
In 1909,
Jehovah led his people
in making a move that would become
an indelible part of our spiritual heritage.
For years,
the Pennsylvania location
had been adequate for the work
of spreading the good news.
But as time went on,
challenges arose.
Pittsburgh’s reputation
was one of steel and industry,
not really one of religion and faith.
The organization at that time was trying
to get the preaching work accomplished,
and it wasn’t really
well-suited in Pittsburgh.
So they struggled to find a city
that would work for them,
and one of the cities
that they came across was Brooklyn.
It was very famous
for its pastors and its churches.
It was actually nicknamed
“The City of Churches,”
and that was a good reputation
to springboard the preaching work from.
They were trying to preach
the good news to the entire earth,
but with so few Bible Students,
how could they possibly do it?
And then they realized the cultural base
that existed in New York City was broad,
and so they felt that
this put them in the perfect position
to preach to people
and have them help the Bible Students
take the message back to their homelands.
Brooklyn, just far and above,
was the obvious choice to them.
Officially, Brooklyn Bethel
opened its doors in April 1909.
These were years
of tremendous activity
leading up to 1914.
They also proved
to be times of test.
The United States
had declared war on Germany.
From March through July of 1918,
eight different brothers
who were taking the lead at that time
were arrested, sentenced,
and taken off
to a federal penitentiary.
The Executive Committee at headquarters
consulted with other brothers.
It was decided to sell
the Brooklyn Tabernacle
and to close the Bethel home.
So we moved here in 1909,
and within ten years,
Brooklyn Bethel was closed.
The headquarters operations
were moved back to Pittsburgh.
In the year 1919,
when the brothers
were finally released from prison,
Brother Rutherford apprehended rapidly:
‘There’s still great interest in the work,
‘and Jehovah is still blessing
and backing us.
‘We need to get back, organize it, and get on
with the work that has been started.’
So should they start from scratch
and build a Bethel there in Allegheny,
or should they utilize
the property that they
already owned in Brooklyn?
They wanted to see if that
was actually Jehovah’s will.
So, what Judge Rutherford
did is he asked
Brother C. A. Wise,
who was his vice president,
‘We need to do a test to see if Jehovah
is going to bless this direction.’
During wartime,
any raw materials
—paper, fuel, all of those things—
are regulated
because the war effort is going on.
So this was a perfect test to see
if it would enable
the brothers to get coal.
He sent him back here,
and he said: ‘Don’t just get a little coal.
‘Get enough so that it is obvious
that if we get this coal,
it is only by Jehovah’s blessing.’
Brother Rutherford directed Brother Wise
to order 500 tons of coal.
And what was the outcome?
When he applied to the authorities,
he was granted a certificate
to obtain 500 tons of coal
—enough to care for their needs
for years to come.
So in 1919
—September, I believe—
is when they actually moved back
from Allegheny to Brooklyn.
Once it was determined
that Brooklyn, New York,
would be the new world headquarters,
how would Jehovah use this new location
to advance the preaching work?
Well, we were dependent back then
on commercial printeries.
Brother Rutherford wondered whether
we could
print The Watchtower ourselves.
And so a printing press was obtained,
and a printery was set up.
And in time, the book printing began.
Outside commercial companies thought
that we would never be capable
of printing and binding books.
But the brothers applied themselves, learned,
and with the support of the Lord,
they got it going.
It was so evident
that Jehovah was using Brooklyn Bethel.
All the printing and binding
was done for the world
here in Brooklyn.
After that,
the organization took in brothers,
under the direction of the Governing Body,
to come and learn what they could
in Brooklyn and take it with them
back to their countries
and see what they could do
about lightening the load a little
as far as the printing
and distribution was concerned.
Soon after I got to Bethel in Japan,
I worked on the web press.
We always looked up to Brooklyn
as our “big brother,”
and we always looked
to them for direction.
Anytime we were able to come back
to the United States on a brief visit,
I would always make sure
to see what was new
and to talk with the brothers.
And the brothers
were always very helpful.
So you saw how Jehovah used
this place to get the spiritual food out
to the worldwide association of the brothers.
It is clear that Jehovah
had blessed the advancement
of the printing and distribution work
in Brooklyn Bethel.
But to further share the truth globally
in a way that would truly touch hearts,
other challenges needed to be addressed.
Zechariah 8:23 says
that ‘ten men out of all the languages
of the nations
will grab hold of the skirt
of a man who is a Jew.’
Now, that’s a lot of languages.
But for every person
to understand,
they have to hear it in their language.
Though we were translating
into many languages, many of these
were not simultaneous with English.
Some of them
lagged behind for many months.
And, of course,
there were many languages
that didn’t have
any literature at all.
And so the Governing Body
saw the situation,
and they created the department
Translation Services.
Some of the early languages
were translated right here in Brooklyn.
Eventually, translation work was moved out
to the branches
where they speak those languages.
The 20th century saw
many technological advancements.
How did Jehovah guide his servants
at Brooklyn Bethel to make progressive use
of these advancements
to further the preaching work
to “all the languages of the nations”?
Well, the challenges
of developing a computer
that could actually type and compose
in all of those languages
were enormous
in the late seventies and early eighties.
I think the brothers could see
that technology was changing.
Things were changing
from letterpress to offset printing;
things were going from black and white
to color.
So I think all the pieces began to be there
to look at the idea of MEPS.
I kind of liken it to our “moon shot.”
In other words,
can you get there and back?
Jehovah provided the right people
at the right time
—people who had previous expertise
with building computer systems
and people who had some expertise
with languages.
And what has always fascinated me
is Jehovah’s use of the timing
of when to use the technologies.
Jehovah put Bethel in Brooklyn.
And he would know at any given time
—strategically and geographically—
where would be the best place
for his world headquarters,
and for decades,
it was Brooklyn.
In 1971, when you looked out
over the East River,
you know what you saw along the shoreline?
A whole row of freighters.
And then the fact that we had
our printery just a few blocks away,
revealed why it was beneficial
to have Bethel here in Brooklyn.
Now, you look out over the East River,
what do you see?
It’s a park.
You have swimming pools there;
it’s full of people.
The purpose has changed,
and the reasons for our being here
have in many ways disappeared.
Because of the way things
are developing in the world
and because of Brooklyn
in New York City
being where it is in the world scene,
it’s time for us to get things
moved out of Brooklyn
and to a new world headquarters
where we can be even more fruitful.
In 2011,
Jehovah was again leading his people
in another historic move.
We’d like to let you know
that the Governing Body has decided
that if the approvals are received
for the Warwick project,
we will be moving
completely out of Brooklyn.
The world headquarters
will be relocated at Warwick.
When it was announced,
the plans of establishing world headquarters
in what is going to be in Warwick,
it just seemed like it was so far away.
We may not even live to that.
But the time has passed quite quickly,
and now it’s virtually on our doorstep.
It’s happening!
We have seen
that Jehovah
can use any location.
We have beautiful facilities now
at Wallkill, Patterson, soon Warwick
—beautiful facilities
that Jehovah will use
to the full just as he used Brooklyn.
And it becomes so evident
that this is not an organization of men.
We’re not dedicated
to a building or to a city;
we are dedicated to Jehovah.
And when you sense his direction
in this matter of relocating
and doing things differently,
you can’t help but—
OK, we back off the sentimentality,
and let’s go ahead and do the work
as Jehovah has outlined for us today.
I’ve always concluded
that when it works,
Jehovah is behind it.
So Warwick worked beautifully.
And if you ever get to Warwick
and you see
Warwick as it is now,
you’ll say,
“This is the place
that Jehovah wanted us to be.”
Jehovah had Brooklyn in place,
some parts of it for over a hundred years.
And it served so well
as a base for the Governing Body,
as a base for printing and providing
spiritual food worldwide,
as a base for direction
for congregations worldwide,
and now Jehovah
has something else in mind.
With the way things turned out,
it wasn’t a man or a group of men
who back in the early 1900’s said:
“You know what we need to do?
“We’ll stay here about a hundred years.
“And then we’ll have a place
up north of the city
“and we’ll move there
and we’ll sell all these buildings
and then it’ll be
a real boost to the work.”
No man or a group of men did that.
But Jehovah and Christ Jesus
—they direct the brothers
at the right time in the right place
to make the decisions
that may seem for the present,
just for the present.
But Jehovah sees the end
from the very beginning.
Yes, world headquarters in Brooklyn
has been the hub of our global preaching work
throughout the 20th century.
Despite many twists and turns,
Jehovah has used this location
to advance his will in unprecedented ways.
While we think back fondly
on all that was accomplished here,
we know going forward,
there is only more to come.
That was most interesting.
But save your hands;
there’s more coming.
So we’re not looking back on Brooklyn,
but we are moving forward
—one step closer to our future hope.
And as you know,
I just love acronyms and abbreviations
—PC, WC,
WDC, LDC—
but what does CPC stand for?
Well, in the video just seen,
you got a glimpse
of the beautiful new little city
built on a lake in Warwick.
So the CPC helped make that happen.
What does the CPC stand for?
CPC stands for
Construction Project Committee.
Lock that in.
Though that committee
lived and breathed
the Warwick project
for a number of years,
it was really
a Governing Body directed project.
However,
the Construction Project Committee
was given the latitude
to make many
of the detail-oriented decisions
on their own.
Now, how did this assignment
affect these brothers?
Did they give it
serious concern?
Let’s pay attention
to a prerecorded interview
of the CPC
conducted by
Brother Harold Corkern,
a helper for the Publishing Committee
of the Governing Body.
The video is entitled
Building for the Future.
The construction
of the new world headquarters
at Warwick, New York,
was indeed a historic project.
The Construction Project Committee
certainly saw evidence
of Jehovah’s blessing
and guidance upon them.
But they also realized
that he was building
more than just a new facility;
he was building qualities
that are so necessary
for his people.
And this we’ll see as we talk
to our CPC members.
At this time,
it would be good for us
to introduce
the Construction Project Committee.
We’ll do so alphabetically.
We have
Brother Ken Caughron,
Brother Kenneth Chernish,
Brother Richard Devine,
Brother Enrique Ford, and
Brother Troy Snyder.
One of the first questions
we’d like to ask you is:
When you first got this assignment
and you learned of the scope
and all the work that was involved
and the established completion date,
what was your first reaction?
And we’ll start with
Brother Richard Devine.
Well, I was excited
but overwhelmed
—overwhelmed not just
by the size of the project
and the expedited schedule
but especially by the level of trust
that the Governing Body
had put in the five of us.
I was used to recommendations
being reviewed
by multiple layers of oversight
and decisions taking weeks
or months to arrive at.
And here the Governing Body told us
that we were to report only
to the Publishing Committee.
And once a budget was established,
to use our best judgment,
carry out the work,
and come back to them for direction
only if we exceeded our budget.
Brother Troy Snyder,
what would you like to add?
The emotions varied
from being scared to excited.
And like any new assignment,
you think about how much work
is going to be needed to accomplish it.
But then when really meditating
on the scope of the job
and the time frame that was desired,
you started to feel inadequate,
and there was just no way
you could do it.
But then you started to realize
that Jehovah was behind you.
He was the one
who was directing matters.
He had confidence that we could do it.
And so as a result,
you knew you could really lean on him
and look at him as a fellow worker.
And that really helped set the pace.
Brother Ford.
The first thing I realized is
that if this project
was going to be successful,
it was going to be
because of Jehovah’s holy spirit.
That was clear because
from a human perspective
it was literally impossible,
but it was what Jehovah
had asked us to do.
And the other thing
that occurred to me
was that Jehovah
wasn’t going to bless
our standard approach
of developing projects.
Brother Ken Caughron?
We were living and working
on the Nigeria branch construction project
at Igieduma out
in the beautiful African bush.
So my first feeling was,
‘Did they dial the wrong number?’
But within 30 minutes,
we returned the phone call.
We were very happy
to accept the privilege to go.
As far as a completion date,
if we would have known
all the details at that time
of how Warwick
would be constructed,
where would
the faith have been?
So it wasn’t our assignment
at that time to know all the details.
It was our assignment to have faith
in the invisible One, Jehovah,
and move forward
with that conviction.
Brother Ken Chernish,
what would you like to add?
I could not believe
that Jehovah would put
that much trust in me.
I’ll never forget
going to bed that night,
laying down, eyes wide open
—they remained open all night long—
just praying to Jehovah.
We didn’t have
construction documents.
We didn’t have permits.
We didn’t even have design
on some of the buildings.
From a secular perspective,
it couldn’t be done in four years.
And I realized I just needed
to have the faith
to follow Jehovah’s lead and
to work with these brothers
and that schedule
would become attainable.
When you first started working
as a committee,
were there any challenges
on learning how
to work together as a committee?
And if so,
how did you address them?
And we’ll start
with Brother Ford.
I remember a visit from one
Governing Body member,
and he made the statement
that they wanted
this not to be a Bethel project,
not to be an RBC project,
but to be a CPC project
—a totally different approach.
So that assured me
that the Governing Body
deliberately wanted us
to blend together
these five different
approaches and personalities.
Brother Richard Devine?
We all brought different
paradigms to the table,
different ways of thinking,
even a different language in some cases.
And so it took a while for us
to understand each other.
And so we, early on,
decided to try to take advantage
of everything
that the brotherhood could offer
and try to blend the different approaches
to achieve the success
that, really, we were hoping for
with Jehovah’s blessing.
And as time went on,
we really began to respect each other
and draw close together
as a committee and as friends.
What I appreciated
was in our meetings,
the brothers felt comfortable
expressing themselves
and their viewpoints
even if it differed from others.
My challenge was lack
of Bethel experience
—still is.
Yet, these brothers
were so patient with me,
so protective of me, even,
and in caring for me,
in understanding how much different
my background was,
the way I went about making decisions,
the way I expressed myself.
Yet, they understood that.
I also prayed to show honor
to these brothers and to take the lead.
I did a good job of it sometimes
and not so good at other times.
But I have
really tried to rely on Jehovah
in that way
to overcome the challenge.
The biggest challenge
for me was myself.
I could quickly see
why Jehovah had brought
the other brothers together
with their experience
in construction,
in engineering,
in business administration,
and many years
at world headquarters.
But I felt apprehensive
about my experience
and even hesitant sometimes
to express myself.
But I kept up
my spiritual routines
—field service, prayer,
meditation, and so forth.
And in time,
I realized that I needed
to show more personal faith
—well, specifically to show more faith
in not comparing ourselves to others
and not neglecting the gifts
that we do have to offer to Jehovah.
So I benefited from every brother
on the committee.
I’m refined,
and I’m very thankful
to Jehovah for helping me grow.
It’s very commendable,
a good example for us.
Our next question:
Given the magnitude
of this project
and the date
that was established for completion,
what organizational
and logistical challenges
did you find most daunting?
Brother Devine?
At our peak,
we were processing
over 11,000 requisition lines a month.
We were delivering
over 1,000 pallets a week to the site.
It was an incredible challenge.
And it really would have been impossible
without Jehovah’s blessing
and the hard work of our
Procurement and Purchasing Departments.
Designers, by their training and background,
are used to planning.
They’re used to starting a project
with the determination
of how long it would take
to get the design finished
and then scheduling forward.
So from day one,
I realized
that if we could not find a way
completed very quickly and on time,
the project would grind to a halt.
So that was very daunting for me.
At that time, the Wallkill project
was still in full swing.
And they were feeding us
volunteers and overseers,
really,
at will when we asked for them,
but they were still
not going to be enough.
We were going to need
to do heavy site work
simultaneous with building
and construction.
That’s not necessarily
the best way to go about it.
There are a lot of clashes
when that happens.
It makes workers less productive
because it’s hard
to move around the spaces.
We were going to have
all six major buildings
in construction simultaneously.
We’d come to find out
we were going to need
to have 11 cranes
swinging in the air.
These things, along with 20 telehandlers
going around the site,
moving this material
that Rich talked about,
were going to be daunting.
And Brother Ken Caughron?
One aspect of my assignment
was to work with safety.
So it was very daunting
in the beginning to imagine:
How will we provide
safety orientation and training
to thousands
of volunteers coming in?
And then,
what would be the best way
to motivate
our brothers and sisters
on the very serious subject
of safety?
And safety is a concern of all
of Jehovah’s people
no matter what we’re doing.
Brother Troy Snyder.
We needed the high skill.
We needed the friends to come.
We needed large amounts
as Brother Chernish mentioned.
But how would we care for them?
At one point, we grew
in an eight-month period over a thousand,
and we did.
What type of rooming
would we have for them?
How would we care for them
spiritually and physically?
At one time,
we found ourselves
with a kitchen and dining room
designed for 200 and trying to feed
about 1,000 people.
We certainly could feel that
it was as if Jesus
was in that kitchen
multiplying the loaves.
You had good support.
But now,
you’ve enumerated understandable
concerns and challenges.
Could you give some examples
on how those were resolved?
And we’ll come back
to Brother Caughron for this one.
We realized that we wanted
to move away
from any inclination or thinking
that safety is somehow the first
responsibility of a safety department
or a safety brother
coming around to check on us.
We wanted
to put forth more effort
to teach that safety
is an expression of our spirituality.
Once we started focusing
on that teaching
—that there are certain values
such as the sanctity of life,
we love our brother,
we must maintain
a good conscience before Jehovah—
then the whole subject of safety
became very inspiring to work with.
It was a real joy.
In a practical way,
on Sunday afternoon,
instead of having a three-hour
safety orientation and training,
we developed a series of videos
that could be streamed
to volunteers.
Before they came
(several weeks ahead of time)
they could watch a video,
take notes,
and watch it again
if they wanted to.
And what it did is
it significantly increased the quality
of our safety orientation and training
for the entire project.
Enrique Ford.
We realized that we couldn’t
be paralyzed by fear
just because we’d never done
something this way before.
We had to move forward
with faith.
An example
of that was as a committee
we made the decision to model
the building in three dimensions
on a computer
before we started construction.
Now,
we had never done that before
—and not to speak of doing it
on a project of this scale,
complexity, with this deadline—
but we moved ahead in faith,
and Jehovah blessed that effort.
We’d like to develop that
a little bit further.
You’ve given us some examples
of how Jehovah’s holy spirit
was certainly there,
his guidance,
and his blessing.
Could you give us some more
examples of that?
We’ll start
with Brother Chernish.
A lot of decisions that were going
to have to be made.
What could we self-perform?
What would
we need to outsource
to get done in four years?
And we would also come to learn
through this process
that if we stopped,
if we prayed,
if we talked about it,
and if we were all in unison,
we would see
Jehovah’s direction.
It was
very faith-strengthening,
and we would see
Jehovah’s spirit
work upon the contractors
that were working here.
They would come to us:
“We’ve never swung
“this many panels
on a building in a day.
“We did 33 today!
We’re accustomed
to doing 16!”
We would chuckle
off on the side.
We knew what they
were benefiting from.
Jehovah too
was moving their actions
because it was his will
and his purpose for this to be done.
So seeing this level
of blessing and holy spirit
was really faith-strengthening.
Troy Snyder.
Early on, we received a letter
from the Governing Body
to our committee reminding us
that although they wanted
the project done in an expedited fashion,
they didn’t want it done in a way
that hurt the brothers spiritually.
And so we started
consciously making efforts
to adjust ones’ schedules
so that they could attend
their meetings,
so they could participate
in the field ministry,
so that they would be able to benefit
from all the spiritual programs
that Bethel provides and has for us.
We were even able to adjust some
of our dear sisters’ schedules
so that they too could keep up
their spiritual routine.
And every time we did that,
it didn’t seem
logical from a human standpoint,
but the project accelerated.
Rich Devine.
Well, I think we’ve prayed
more on this project
than any other theocratic project
I’ve ever been involved with
not only as a committee
but every department
and every crew
would pray together.
If we talked about work,
we prayed.
Whether it was technical discussions
or anything else, we always prayed.
And it really made us feel that Jehovah
was a part of our daily work
—that we were really
fellow workers with him—
and we really felt that.
But also, I think the most dramatic evidence
of Jehovah’s spirit
was the manifestation
of the fruitage of the spirit
in our brothers and sisters.
Despite long work hours,
hard working conditions,
difficult living conditions,
an expedited schedule,
you could still
see the love, the hope,
and the joy
in the brothers every day.
And this really
helped me to understand
how Jehovah’s spirit
was so active here.
What would you like to say
to the Bethel family
and to the thousands of willing,
hard-working volunteers that came
from the field to assist you?
Perhaps we can start
with Ken Caughron.
Well,
many thousands of years ago,
we remember
the sacrifice of Abel
because out of love
he gave the best he had.
So we say “thank you”
to the brothers and sisters
who supported
the project out in the field
—out of love giving the best
they had was often their prayers.
Others came physically,
giving out of love the best they had.
So may all the brothers
and sisters remember
that this was the reason
they shared in the project,
and it is something
that they and Jehovah
can remember for an eternity.
Ken Chernish.
Like Brother Caughron said,
I would just like
to say “thank you”
and especially to all
of the brothers and sisters
in the Bethel complexes
in the U.S. branch territory.
They treated us like a parent
would treat a child
—so lovingly.
They gave us everything
we asked for that we needed.
The friends out in the field,
we’ve talked about them so much.
They turned their lives upside down
to come here and work with us.
Did they benefit?
Absolutely!
And we so appreciate
how they put up with us,
how things changed,
and the schedules that we imputed
upon them to get this work done.
We know they benefited
as we did,
and we’d like
to thank them so much.
Rich Devine.
Thank you
for sacrificing your money
and your time
to come and help us.
Thank you for interviewing
and sending such capable volunteers.
Thanks for working
in the rain and the snow.
Thanks for enduring
long bus rides and living in hotels.
Thanks for being our friends,
and thanks for the wonderful spirit
that you showed through the whole project.
Enrique Ford.
As we had the opportunity
to eat with the volunteers,
work with them,
and travel with them,
it became evident
that every one of them
had a story as
to how they got here.
Sometimes it was
the supportive mate
Other times,
they talked about their children
and how their children
encouraged them
and supported them
so that they could be here.
There are even
some brothers that told us
about how
the entire congregation
supported them financially
as well as covering
their assignments back home
because the congregation wanted to sponsor
someone since they couldn’t come.
So we just want to thank
all of those volunteers
and the support that made it possible
for them to come.
Troy Snyder?
We love you very much.
And Jehovah united us as a family
in a period of time to accomplish
something for his glory.
And I think we personally would love
to be able to express our appreciation
and reward each person
for what they’ve done.
But we take such comfort in knowing
that Jehovah has seen their love,
has seen their work,
and he will reward them.
And that will be a rich blessing.
Thank you
for those heartfelt expressions.
And in conclusion,
we just have a few brief comments.
We have heard, and rightfully so,
the Governing Body
offer warm commendation and appreciation
to all of you on this committee
as well as to the thousands
who have supported the project.
And at this time,
we’d also like
to take this opportunity
to thank your wives
for their hard work
on this project,
their patience, their endurance,
and their absolute support that they gave.
It’s most appreciated.
And I know you appreciate
their support,
and we do too.
So the lessons
that we all learned
—thanks to you, from this project
and thanks to Jehovah most of all—
will benefit us now
and right on into the future
as your comments have alluded to.
So once again, thank you for taking the time
to share these observations.
Thank you for your hard work.
And it will be a privilege
for all of us to continue
to work “shoulder to shoulder”
with “the one who constructed
all things,” Jehovah God.
There was one word that stood out
in this interview,
and it was the word “daunting.”
And, of course,
that is a beautiful word.
It’s a good word.
But when you see what was accomplished
in the past four years,
you’ll see why we’re going to change
the word “daunting” to “amazing.”
So lock that one in.
I mentioned earlier
that this was
a Governing Body directed project.
CPC was indeed a unique way
to expedite the construction.
However, all that was accomplished
on the Warwick project
is a result of the base
of experience and, of course,
all the wonderful training
that had been laid
for the last several decades
by the Design/Build Department—
that’s DBD.
They did a lot in planning and executing
construction projects around the world.
And the amazing Warwick project
would not have happened in that time frame
without the thousands of volunteers,
many of whom for years tirelessly assisted
Regional Building Committees
—RBC.
They are sent to them to build so many
Assembly and Kingdom Halls
month after month.
And the same is true
of all of the volunteers
that came and assisted
with the monumental expansion
of the Wallkill branch facility.
Now, would you brothers and sisters like
to thank all of these ones who supported
two of the largest construction
projects to date?
I might mention
that on Friday,
October 14, 2016,
a new video
about moving out of Brooklyn
will be posted
on JW Broadcasting.
You will find it under
“Latest Videos.”
At the end of that video,
a letter from the Governing Body is read
sharing sincere appreciation
for all those who worked
on these two construction projects.
It will be posted in English first
with other languages
being posted at a later time.
Look for the English edition
on JW Broadcasting
on October 14, 2016.
For your further information,
the CPC was dissolved
as of September 29, 2016.
They will all be moving on
to other assignments.
And we appreciate very much
their intense labor of love.